'\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH chsh.ldap 1 "Feb 2018" "Version 0.9.9" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
chsh.ldap \- change login shell in LDAP
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBchsh.ldap\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fILOGIN\fR]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBchsh.ldap\fR command can be used to change user's
login shell (command interpreter).
.PP
The actual change in LDAP is performed by the
\fBnslcd\fR daemon and is subject to the access controls
configured in the LDAP server.
.SH OPTIONS
The options that may be specified to the \fBchsh.ldap\fR
command are:
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-s\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-shell\fR\*(T> \fISHELL\fR 
The name of the user's new login shell.
Setting this field to blank causes the system to select the default
login shell.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-l\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-list\-shells\fR\*(T> 
Print the list of shells found in \*(T<\fI/etc/shells\fR\*(T> and exit.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-h\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-help\fR\*(T> 
Display short help and exit.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR\*(T> 
Output version information and exit.
.PP
If no option is specified \fBchsh.ldap\fR will prompt the
user to enter a value for the shell.
.SH FILES
\*(T<\fI/etc/shells\fR\*(T> - list of valid login shells
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBchsh\fR(1),
\fBshells\fR(5),
\fBnslcd\fR(8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual was written by Arthur de Jong <arthur@arthurdejong.org>.
