'\" -*- coding: utf-8 -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH getent.ldap 1 "Sep 2018" "Version 0.9.10" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getent.ldap \- query information from LDAP
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBgetent.ldap\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIDATABASE\fR] [\fIKEY...\fR]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgetent.ldap\fR command can be used to lookup or
enumerate information from LDAP.
Unlike the
\fBgetent\fR(1)
command, this command completely bypasses the lookups configured in
\*(T<\fI/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR\*(T> and queries the
\fBnslcd\fR(8)
daemon directly.
.PP
\fBgetent.ldap\fR tries to match the behaviour and output of
\fBgetent\fR and the format in the corresponding flat files
as much as possible, however there are a number of differences.
If multiple entries are found in LDAP that match a
specific query, multiple values are printed (e.g. ethernet addresses that
have multiple names, services that support multiple protocols, etc.).
Also, some databases have extra options as described below.
.SH OPTIONS
The options that may be specified to the \fBgetent.ldap\fR
command are:
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-h\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-help\fR\*(T> 
Display short help and exit.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-V, \-\-version\fR\*(T> 
Output version information and exit.
.SH DATABASES
The \fIDATABASE\fR argument may be any of the
supported databases below:
.TP 
\*(T<\fBaliases\fR\*(T>
Lists or queries email aliases.
If \fIKEY\fR is given it searches for the alias
by name, otherwise it returns all aliases from
LDAP.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBethers\fR\*(T>
Lists or queries ethernet addresses.
If \fIKEY\fR matches the format of an ethernet
address a search by address is performed, otherwise a search by name
is performed or all entries are returned if
\fIKEY\fR is omitted.
Unlike \fBgetent\fR, \fBgetent.ldapd\fR
does support enumerating all ethernet addresses.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBgroup\fR\*(T>
Lists or queries groups.
If \fIKEY\fR is numeric, it searches for the
group by group id.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBgroup.bymember\fR\*(T>
The \fIKEY\fR is a user name and groups are
returned for which this user is a member.
The format is similar to the \*(T<\fBgroup\fR\*(T> output but the
group members are left out for performance reasons.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBhosts\fR\*(T>
List or search host names and addresses by either host name,
IPv4 or IPv6 address. This returns both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses
(if available).
.TP 
\*(T<\fBhostsv4\fR\*(T>
Similar to \*(T<\fBhosts\fR\*(T> but any supplied IPv6 addresses are
treated as host names and only IPv4 addresses are returned.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBhostsv6\fR\*(T>
Similar to \*(T<\fBhosts\fR\*(T> but \fIKEY\fR
is treated as an IPv6 address or a host name and only IPv6 addresses
are returned.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBnetgroup\fR\*(T>
List or query netgroups and netgroup triples (host, user, domain) that
are a member of the netgroup.
Unlike \fBgetent\fR, \fBgetent.ldapd\fR
does support enumerating all ethernet addresses.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBnetgroup.norec\fR\*(T>
Similar to \*(T<\fBnetgroup\fR\*(T> except that no subsequent
lookups are done to expand netgroups which are member of the
supplied netgroup and the output may contain both other netgroup
names and netgroup triples.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBnetworks\fR\*(T>
List or query network names and addresses.
\fIKEY\fR may be a network name or address.
This map can return both IPv4 and IPv6 network addresses.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBnetworksv4\fR\*(T>
Only return IPv4 network addresses.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBnetworksv6\fR\*(T>
Only return IPv6 network addresses.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBpasswd\fR\*(T>
Enumerate or search the user account database.
\fIKEY\fR may be a user name or numeric user id
or be omitted to list all users.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBprotocols\fR\*(T>
Enumerate the internet protocols database.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBrpc\fR\*(T>
List or search user readable names that map to RPC program numbers.
Searching by \fIKEY\fR can be done on name or
rpc program number.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBservices\fR\*(T>
List or search the mapping between names for internet services and
their corresponding port numbers and protocol types.
The \fIKEY\fR can be either a service name or
number, followed by an optional slash and protocol name to restrict
the search to only entries for the specified protocol.
.TP 
\*(T<\fBshadow\fR\*(T>
Enumerate or search extended user account information.
Note that shadow information is likely only exposed to the root user
and by default \fBnslcd\fR does not expose password
hashes, even to root.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBgetent\fR(1),
\fBnslcd\fR(8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual was written by Arthur de Jong <arthur@arthurdejong.org>.
.SH BUGS
Currently, \fBgetent.ldapd\fR does not correctly set an
exit code. It should return the same kind of exit codes as
\fBgetent\fR does (e.g. for missing entries).
